---
title: Build a website locally
subtitle: Create beautiful websites from your MyST project.
subject: Quickstart tutorial
---

:::{important} Objective
The goal of this tutorial is to explore the ways in which the MyST Document Engine can be used to create rich websites. The tutorial will help you up and running with a Jupyter Book on your local computer, where the build of an online website is covered later.
:::

:::{note} Skills and prerequisites
**Skills**: It is helpful if you have some familiarity with using the command line, as well as using a text editor and/or JupyterLab.

**Tools**: You'll need a code and notebook editor ([VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) is great, and we recommend [Jupyter Lab](https://jupyter.org/install) for notebooks) as well as access to a CLI.
:::

## Running `jupyter book start`

Jupyter Book ships with a built-in server that renders your book as a locally-served website. The server can easily be started by running the `jupyter book start` command. Once the server is runnning, Jupyter Book will report the URL at which it can be found (see [](#code:start-server)):

```{code} shell
:linenos:
:emphasize-lines: 9
:name: code:start-server

$ jupyter book start
🔍 Querying template metadata from https://api.mystmd.org/templates/site/myst/book-theme
🐕 Fetching template from https://github.com/myst-templates/book-theme/archive/refs/heads/main.zip
💾 Saved template to path _build/templates/site/myst/book-theme
...
🔌 Server started on port 3000!  🥳 🎉


	👉  http://localhost:3000  👈
```

Navigating to that URL in your web-browser will load a website which updates as you modify your book, such as adding new files or changing prose. Try e.g. changing the title of [`intro.md`](#tutorial:creating-new-file).

## Declaring a table of contents

By default, Jupyter Book will attempt to find the important files that comprise your book, and {term}`deterministically order them <Deterministic Ordering>`. Once a project becomes more complex, we should look to add our files to the table of contents (TOC). Although the MyST Document Engine is clever enough to find and organise documents in your project folder, using an explicit TOC makes it easier for new contributors to understand the structure of your book. Let's update our [`myst.yml` from the previous section](../get-started/init.md#code:myst-yml). Jupyter Book defines a `--write-toc` argument to the `init` command that automatically populates a table of contents from the files MyST-MD finds in the project folder.

```{code} yaml
:filename: myst.yml
:caption: The `myst.yml` produced by running `jupyter book init --write-toc`.
:name: code:myst-yml-toc
:linenos:
:emphasize-lines: 12, 13, 14

# See docs at: https://mystmd.org/guide/frontmatter
version: 1
project:
  id: 4da9cb15-177c-41f5-8c4e-6a24b4e87eab
  title: An example Jupyter Book
  description: A collection of files that build up a book
  keywords:
    - jupyter-book
    - something-else
  github: captain-jupyter/my-book
  # To autogenerate a table of contents, run "jupyter book init --write-toc"
  toc:
    # Auto-generated by `myst init --write-toc`
    - file: intro.md
site:
  template: book-theme
  # options:
  #   favicon: favicon.ico
  #   logo: site_logo.png
```

The entries within a table of contents can be nested under titles and/or other pages. See [the MyST-MD guide](xref:guide/table-of-contents#nesting-pages-and-dropdowns) for more.


## Check missing references and links with strict mode

By default, Jupyter Book will build your site even if there are warnings like broken internal references or missing files.

Use the `--strict` flag to check and raise warnings for these, and to treat warnings as errors, causing the build to fail if issues are detected. This is particularly useful for:

- **Catching broken cross-references** - Internal links that don't resolve to actual targets
- **Detecting missing files** - Files referenced in your TOC or includes that don't exist
- **Validating directives** - Ensuring all MyST directives have valid syntax and required parameters
- **CI/CD pipelines** - Preventing broken content from being deployed

### Using strict mode

To build your site with strict checking:

```bash
$ jupyter book build --html --strict
```

Or for static exports:

```bash
$ jupyter book build --pdf --strict
```

When strict mode is enabled, the build will fail with a non-zero exit code if any warnings are present, making it easy to catch issues in automated workflows.


## Export static documents
You can export Jupyter Book content to many kinds of static files, like PDF.
See [](xref:guide/quickstart-static-exports) for a full tutorial.
