---
jupytext:
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.12
    jupytext_version: 1.6.0
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# Overview

This is a short overview of the major components and steps in building a Jupyter Book. See the other pages in this guide for more in-depth information.

(start:install)=
## Install Jupyter Book

You can install Jupyter Book [via `pip`](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/):

```bash
pip install -U jupyter-book
```

This will install everything you need to build a Jupyter Book locally.

## The Jupyter Book command-line interface

Jupyter Book uses a command-line interface to perform a variety of actions. For example, building and cleaning books. You can run the following command to see what options are at your control:

```{margin}
You can also use the short-hand `jb` for `jupyter-book`. E.g.,:
`jb create mybookname`. We'll use `jupyter-book` for the rest of this guide.
```

% double-writing this so users aren't confused by the ! but we still get the output
```bash
jupyter-book --help
```

```{code-cell}
:tags: [remove-input]

!jupyter-book --help
```

For more complete information about the CLI, see [](../reference/cli.md).

## The book building process

Building a Jupyter Book broadly consists of these steps:

1. **Create your book's content**. You structure your book with a collection of folders, files, and configuration. See [](anatomy-of-a-book).
2. **Build your book**. Using Jupyter Book's command-line interface you can
   convert your pages into either an HTML or a PDF book. See [](build.md).
3. **Publish your book online**. Once your book is built, you can share it with others. Most common is to build HTML, and host it as a public website. See [](publish.md).

:::{note}
We will use the word "book" to describe the outputs generated by this tutorial, but you can also use Jupyter Book to build **articles**.
See [](structure:article) for more information.
:::

(anatomy-of-a-book)=
## Anatomy of a Jupyter Book

There are three things that you need in order to build a Jupyter Book:

- A configuration file (`_config.yml`)
- A table of contents file (`_toc.yml`)
- Your book's content

For example, consider the following folder structure, which makes up a simple Jupyter Book.

```
mybookname/
├── _config.yml
├── _toc.yml
├── landing-page.md
└── page1.ipynb
```

We'll cover each briefly below, and you can find more information about them
elsewhere in this documentation.

### Book configuration (`_config.yml`)

All of the configuration for your book is in a YAML file called `_config.yml`.

You can define metadata for your book (such as its title), add
a book logo, turn on different "interactive" buttons (such as a
{term}`Binder` button for pages built from a Jupyter Notebook), and more.

```{margin}
For more information about your book's configuration file, see
[](../customize/config.md).
```

Here's an example of a simple `_config.yml` file:

```yaml
# in _config.yml
title: "My book title"
logo: images/logo-wide.svg
execute:
  execute_notebooks: "off"
```

- `title:` defines a title for the book. It will show up in the left sidebar.
- `logo:` defines a path to an image file for your book's logo (it will also show up in the sidebar).
- `execute:` contains a collection of configuration options to control [execution and cacheing](../content/execute.md).
  - `execute_notebooks: "off"` tells Jupyter Book **not to execute** any computational content that it finds when building the book. By default, Jupyter Book executes and caches all book content.

:::{admonition} More about `_config.yml`
:class: tip
There is much more that you can do with the `_config.yml` file. For example, you can [](source-repository-button) or add [](../interactive/interactive.ipynb). For a complete list of fields for `_config.yml`, see [](../customize/config.md).
:::

### Table of Contents (`_toc.yml`)

Jupyter Book uses your Table of Contents to define the structure of your book.
For example, your chapters, sub-chapters, etc.

This is a YAML file with a collection of pages, each one linking to a
file in your book. Here's an example of the two content files shown above.

````{margin}
If you would like to quickly **generate a basic Table of Contents** YAML file,
run the following command:

```bash
jupyter-book toc mybookname/
```

And it will generate a TOC for you. Note that there must be at least one content
file in each folder in order for any sub-folders to be parsed.
````

```yaml
# In _toc.yml
format: jb-book
root: landing-page
chapters:
- file: page1
```

The `_toc.yml` is arranged with a `format` such as `jb-article`, or `jb-book`.
The `root` item is considered the landing page (for `html` builds) and is used as front matter (for `latex` builds).
For `jb-book`, subsequent chapters can be added under the `chapters:` section in the `yml` file.

Each entry relates to a file, and they should be added as names with **no extensions** and **relative to your book's root folder.**
The title of each chapter will be inferred from the title in your files.

:::{admonition} More about `_toc.yml`
:class: tip
You can specify more complex book configurations with your `_toc.yml` file. For example, you can specify **parts**, **sections**, and control **custom titles**. For more information about your book's table of contents file, see [](../customize/toc.md).
:::

### Book content

A collection of text files make up your book's content. These can be one of several types of files, such as markdown (`.md`), Jupyter Notebooks (`.ipynb`) or reStructuredText (`.rst`) files (see [](../file-types/index.md) for a full list).

In the above example, there were two files listed: a **markdown** file and a **Jupyter Notebook**.
We'll cover each in the next section.
